Copy 


Intro 
-----

Thanks for stopping by. I'm a freelance digital content producer based in Western Canada. I enjoy creating cool shit for the web, love experimenting with the latest and greatest ways of presenting content, and hate missing deadlines. Take a look around and get in touch if you think I could be of help in your digital ventures.



Modals
--------


Radiate

Photography, Branding, <br>Web Design &amp; Development

A brand launched from sratch with the added complexity of showcasing an innovative mixed-medium collection of art. Executed all aspects of digital presence from photography and branding to web design, development, and analytics follow up.



ASJ
Web Development, Content Management <br>&plus; Launch Support
Executed a modern, responsive web presence for Jordan Manley's latest multi-episode film project in partnership with Arc'teryx and Destination BC. Supported episodic launch across digital channels.


Alpine Academy
Live Event Support, Digital Content Management, Web Development
On the ground digital support in addition to web development and design pre-event. Covered all web and content needs to global Arc'teryx channels, produced the Movie Night program and was responsible for the main digital signage in the event village.


BC Bike
Web Design &amp; Development
Design and development for BC Bike Race's new Northern BC tour for Summer 2017. Event and registration information for participants delivered in a simple and efficient one page flow.

Deep Winter
Live Event Support, Web Design &amp; Development
Web design and development as well as on site digital support for Arc'teryx and Whistler Blackcomb global channels over the four day photography event. 




Skills
-------

Digital Content Strategy & Execution 
Full stack digital support, from high-level branding activities to on the ground execution. 

Web Design & Development
HTML &plus; CSS/SASS expertise, utilzing open source platforms to create bespoke user experiences.

VR, 360 & 3D 
Experimenting in the emerging field of VR with a focus on delivery via WebVR for maximum user base exposure.

Live Event Support
Over a decade of experience disseminating live events over digital channels.  

Editorial, Photo & Video Production
Planning, production, exectuion and analysis of all major channel media activities.



Contact 
--------

Get In Touch
Need help with a project that touches the digital space? Hit me up via e-mail and we can discuss the details.


Footer 
-------