BC Bike Race

Placeholder Copy

We all love a road trip, this is what we live for as mountain bikers.

Welcome to the ultimate road trip experience! We have created a five-day festival style tour that will take mountain bikers through Northern British Columbia to experience purpose built trails, local culture, and the stunning landscape that the area is known for.

Our decade of producing the BC Bike Race naturally lends itself to the creation of a mobile festival tour in the theme of the Jamaica Fat Tire Festival, The Sedona Mountain Bike Festival, Mountain Bike Oregon, the Fruita Fat Tire Festival, and Outerbike in Moab.

The Ultimate Road Trip Experience:
•	 cross-country, downhill, and all-mountain riding
•	 full service camp
•	 gourmet meals
•	 socializing around the campfire 


3.1 Itinerary
We are very excited to introduce BC Bike Ride to Northern British
Columbia. It is the new frontier for destination mountain
biking and with that we are celebrating a new era of diversity
in purpose built mountain bike trails in our province. Almost
every town has a stash of handbuilt singletrack to explore.
THE UNIQUE PROPERTY OF NORTHERN BC
William’s Lake offers 200 km of purpose built singletrack within city
limits and another 100+ km within a 30 minute drive with everything
from epic cross-country to steep and gnarly downhill. It’s also home to
the largest bike park in the Interior with 10 acres of jumps, drops, and
log work; riders are sure to be entertained.
Prince George is the traditional home of the Lheidli T’enneh and
Carrier Sekani First Nations people. From Pidherny to the Otway and
Heritage River trails, Prince George offers a wide variety of cross-country,
all-mountain, and downhill riding experiences.
Burns Lake offers a progressive beginner-to-advanced trails network
designed by world-renowned experts including the IMBA trail crew,
Gravity Logic and Jay Hoots, as well as a local trail crew. It offers a
rider-focussed sequence of cross-country, freeride and downhill trails,
as well as a skills park, jump park and Rider Cross track, all just ten
minutes from downtown on Boer Mountain.
Smithers lies in the beautiful Bulkley Valley – a prime mountain biking
location surrounded by forested hillsides, stunning alpine meadows and
rugged mountain peaks. The area offers everything from wide-open
pathways to historical mining roads, alpine singletrack, and steep,
technical freeride trails.
Terrace has become increasingly popular as a destination for mountain
biking. With a core group of riders who are dedicated to building
maintaining trails in the area, both Terrace and the nearby suburb of
Thornhill offer hundreds of trails to explore.