



Crows Nest Distillery
Distillery Branding Project
Creative Brief

Version 1.0
Submitted by: Chris O’Connell
Submitted on: Nov 20, 2016

Delivered to:  TK
Project Deadline: TK




Contents

Project Summary

Project Deliverables & Branding Details

Project Timeline

About The Brand
Brand Mission Statement
History and Current Status
Target Market
Brand Positioning
Brands We Like

Supporting Documentation
About the Founders
Partner and Supplier Information
Distribution Plan
Craft Licence Details
Detailed Timelines




Project Summary

The creation of creative branding for Crows Nest Distillery, a new local craft spirit producer headquartered in Vancouver, BC, with production facilities located in Abbotsford, BC.

Creative must support a wide ranging assortment of future products and speak inclusively to a varied range of ages and demographics.


Project Deliverables

Minimum Deliverables
2-3 Brand Logo treatments
2-3 accompanying Word Mark treatments

Additional Deliverables
Font pairing selections for future marketing collateral
Colour Pallette direction


Branding Details

You have been selected for this project based on your portfolio of previous work and as such the client is looking forward to seeing your unique perspective and style applied to the project. The client is open to any and all potential creative directions. The only limitation and/or direction available is the specific name or word mark, “Crows Nest Distillery”, three words, no punctuation.

The potential variety of markets that Crows Nest will be catering to necessitates a logo that can easily traverse multiple demographic segments fluidly and confidently. Ultimately, a simple design with a balance of timelessness and modernity would be the ideal. The natural aspects of the name (crows, nest) should provide a solid base from which to provide the timeless quality, the ideal would be a modern interpretation of those elements.


Project Timeline

Brief Delivery					Nov 23, 2015
Project Time		 			One Week
Initial Concept Delivery			Nov 30, 2015
Internal Review & Artist Selection		Dec 1, 2015
Final Branding Asset Creation 			Dec 1 - Dec 15, 2015
Branding Delivery 				Dec 15, 2015





About The Brand

Mission Statement
Crows Nest Distillery produces innovative hand-crafted spirits from locally-sourced ingredients, providing an authentic local alternative and outstanding value proposition to consumers of spirits mindful of supporting locally sustainable production and savouring premium quality.

The Craft Distillery Designation
Crows Nest will be approved for a distillery licence which allows for production and distribution of 50,000L of product to remain under a craft designation. Craft-designated distilleries have tax benefits but must source their main ingredients from within the province (BC), resulting in inventive solutions to ingredient sourcing.

Innovation and Competitive Points of Difference
The most exciting innovation at launch will be the unique craft rum recipe. Due to the lack of sugar cane available in the province, Crows Nest has partnered with the premier Bee Farm in the province, leveraging top quality local honey, resulting in a sweet one-of-a-kind flavour.

The volume required for at-scale production will provide a significant amount of support to the agricultural honey industry in the province at a time when bee populations are at their most vulnerable, and may allow their bee supplier to increase the size of their bee farm and overall production. Crows Nest is also committed to overall sustainability efforts, and will be purchasing carbon offsets to balance production and distribution activities.

History & Current Status
The company is currently finalizing production facilities in Abbotsford, BC, and securing the equipment necessary for production at scale. Facility renovations, equipment installation and testing will begin as soon as city permitting is complete. Production is slated to begin in April-May of 2016, with distribution beginning mid-year.

Product Details
Initially, Crowsnest will be focussing on production of two product lines which will be targeting significantly varied demographics.


Rum
In order to produce a craft rum without the sugar cane typically used to make the spirit, Crows Nest’s Rum will utilize honey farmed locally in BC. Partnering with one of the largest honey producers in the province, this innovative new recipe has the added advantage of supporting the honeybee production ecosystem - which has seen severe turmoil of late - at a larger scale. Honey is also significantly more expensive than sugar cane, providing the consumer with a premium ingredient compared to generic mass-produced brands.

Vodka
The pioneering vodka product would be a multiple-distilled product, potentially also using honey, which would be positioned further up-market branding-wise relative to the rum, in order to compete in a much more crowded and competitive market, however it will be priced only slightly above generic mass-produced products making it attractive to customers.

Target Market
The distillery will be catering to a potentially wide range of markets, however the focus from a marketing perspective for the rum product will be on the 19-31 year old demographic with a priority placed on 21-25 year-olds, while the vodka product will range from 19-50, strategically partnering with local tastemakers and tasteplaces in an effort to foster awareness organically.

Brand appeal will need to be broad due to the variations in potential market positioning. Although the brand will not necessarily be competing with premium labels with regard to price, the creative should allow for it to be dressed up and toned down, allowing most of the visual focus to be put on the individual product brands and their stories, which are to be developed as soon as this branding project is completed.

Positioning
Initial projections for both the Rum and Vodka products have pricing estimated at $24 per bottle retail as opposed to $20-22 for the standard market brands like Bacardi/Captain Morgan or Smirnoff/Absolut, but still well below the premium and other craft brands priced at $35-40 and higher. This pricing strategy will allow the brand to skew to the younger demographic whose aspirational tastes can often be out of sync with their actual resources. The creative should be sympathetic to this dynamic.

Brands We Like
Throughout the initial planning and discussion stages, Absolut has time and again been regarded very highly for their branding strategy: a strong creative presence with a design simple enough to be seamlessly integrated into everything from event-specific one-offs like Pride-celebration rainbow-wrapped-bottles to their up-market premium offerings with full-colour graphical screens and glass etchings.

Locally, while there are several distilleries that produce high quality product, the branding and creative aspects of our provincial competitors leaves much to be desired. This poses a significant opportunity to present the brand in an impactful, globally relevant manner.



Supporting Documentation

About the Founders
Ian Jarvis
Dan Paolone

Partner and Supplier Information

Production Equipment


Distribution Plan
There is an existing relationship in place with an established Liquor Agent currently operating primarily in the beer market who will be managing sales for the brand. Additionally, the founders’ connections with major restaurant/hospitality groups has the potential to expand the market reach greatly.

Initially, distribution will be focused on the local Vancouver and Lower-Mainland area, and occur via:
Restaurants
Bars & Nightclubs
Private Liquor Stores
Sponsored and Hosted Events
Production Facility and Urban Pop Up Retail (dependent on licensing)

Moving forward, the brand is looking into expansion of distribution into the US market as well as other global possibilities.

Craft Licence Details
Production is limited to 50,000L per year, per craft licence.
All Ingredients must be sourced from within British Columbia.
Traditional manufacturing methods must be used (pot or column still in this case)
Products cannot be sold in provincially run BC Liquor Stores


Detailed Timelines
TK

