HEchangedit Website Content


Welcome to he.

A men’s only platform to just be you





ABOUT:


A judgement free peer to peer exchange platform that you can access personally, or through an anonymous toggle. Use your story to help someone through a rough time: a job change, family issues, thoughts, loneliness. In return, engage other’s expertise in areas that interest you: Personal development, entrepreneurship, relationships…anything really that can help you advance in life.

This is your space. Become part of the community so you can be part of the solution. Join our Facebook Group (would see those words containing the link to take people right in to the app) or sign up to stay updated and become a beta tester for the he.(would see the word sign up containing a link to the sign up section of our website) App being released this summer.

he. Is for you. A place to go to transfer the knowledge you have and receive the knowledge you want.


SIGN UP:

In place already, thanks so much, Chris.


INVESTORS:

HEchangedit is leveraging technology to disrupt the status quo by developing gender-based consciousness to today’s burgeoning concerns for men, including today’s social climate, the rising costs of health, fair legislation regarding divorce and family, and more.

Interested in doubling your bottom line by investing in an organization focused on making positive social impact in an underserved market with multiple revenue streams? Please connect with us info@hechangedit.com to learn more now.

HEADINGS:


About – see above for initial content, will continue to be updated as organization evolves


Team – Co-Founders Candace Chisholm and Shannon Crabbe, pictures sent separately, brief bios to be included are as follows:
Xxxxx
Mike Chisholm – picture provided separately, brief bio is below:
Question – Board of Directors to be added eventually?


Investors – see above for initial content, may be removed eventually


Blog / Vlog


We will look to add more headings eventually, but we don’t have content yet, so thinking we obviously leave off, just wanted to provide from a layout perspective:
Mentorship
Services and Solutions
Giving Back or in the community
Others as we discussed




<p>A mentor exchange peer to peer community.<br/>Add to someone’s life.<br/> Take what you need to learn.<br/> Judgement free.<br/> Anonymous if you want.</p>
