Welcome, I'm a digital content producer with over a decade of experience across design, development, editorial and strategy for the web, print and most recently the virtual reality space.

Projects

Radiate
Radiate Studios is a new venture from my partner Michelle Vergeer that merges traditional artistic techniques with modern technology such as 3D Printing. I was responsible for brand creation, visuals and web design & development for this initial launch phase.

ASJ
In collaboration with photographer and videographer Jordan Manley, Arc'teryx and Destination BC, I assumed the role of digital project manager and developed a web presence for this multi-part video series.


Arc Blog
The redesign of the Arc'teryx Blog was undertaken in order to provide the internal content team with a more flexible and user-friendly platform for the brands campaigns. The site was migrated from Drupal to Wordpress for which I developed a custom theme and modernized the visual look and feel.



Experience

Freelance
My recent focus has been on medium and small-sized projects, assisting small business with digital strategy and creating manageable, cost efficient solutions to introduce or tweak their online presence.

Arc
As a frontend developer I was responsible for site-wide campaigns on Arcteryx.com as well as support for events such as the Deep Winter Photo Challenge and Arc'teryx Academy event series. Worked closely with the content team to maximize the impact of their work across digital platforms.

SBC
During my three volume stint I was tasked with modernizing the visuals and editorial voice of Canada's best selling ski magazine. Managing a global team of top photo and editorial talent, I was able to successfully merge the legacy brand values with a fresh and contemporary look and feel.

NS/Sportnet
Upon sale of Newschoolers.com to Wasserman Media Group's Sportnet division, I maintained my role as director of content and design, continuing to grow the world's largest freeskiing community while innovating with projects like live streaming from on-mountain competitions.

NS
As employee number two, I played an integral role in the business and community development of Newschoolers, a freeskiing community website until it's eventual sale to WMG in 2008.
